README.md, before:

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fcommerce&project-name=commerce&repo-name=commerce&demo-title=Next.js%20Commerce&demo-description=An%20all-in-one%20starter%20kit%20for%20high-performance%20e-commerce%20sites.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Fdemo.vercel.store&demo-image=https%3A%2F%2Fbigcommerce-demo-asset-ksvtgfvnd.vercel.app%2Fbigcommerce.png&integration-ids=oac_MuWZiE4jtmQ2ejZQaQ7ncuDT)

# Next.js Commerce

The all-in-one starter kit for high-performance e-commerce sites. With a few clicks, Next.js developers can clone, deploy and fully customize their own store.
Start right now at [nextjs.org/commerce](https://nextjs.org/commerce)

Demo live at: [demo.vercel.store](https://demo.vercel.store/)

- Shopify Demo: https://shopify.vercel.store/
- Swell Demo: https://swell.vercel.store/
- BigCommerce Demo: https://bigcommerce.vercel.store/
- Vendure Demo: https://vendure.vercel.store
- Saleor Demo: https://saleor.vercel.store/
- Ordercloud Demo: https://ordercloud.vercel.store/

## Features

- Performant by default
- SEO Ready
- Internationalization
- Responsive
- UI Components
- Theming
- Standardized Data Hooks
- Integrations - Integrate seamlessly with the most common ecommerce platforms.
- Dark Mode Support

## Integrations

Next.js Commerce integrates out-of-the-box with BigCommerce, Shopify, Swell, Saleor and Vendure. We plan to support all major ecommerce backends.

## Considerations

- `framework/commerce` contains all types, helpers and functions to be used as base to build a new **provider**.
- **Providers** live under `framework`'s root folder and they will extend Next.js Commerce types and functionality (`framework/commerce`).
- We have a **Features API** to ensure feature parity between the UI and the Provider. The UI should update accordingly and no extra code should be bundled. All extra configuration for features will live under `features` in `commerce.config.json` and if needed it can also be accessed programatically.
- Each **provider** should add its corresponding `next.config.js` and `commerce.config.json` adding specific data related to the provider. For example in case of BigCommerce, the images CDN and additional API routes.
- **Providers don't depend on anything that's specific to the application they're used in**. They only depend on `framework/commerce`, on their own framework folder and on some dependencies included in `package.json`

## Configuration

### How to change providers

Open `.env.local` and change the value of `COMMERCE_PROVIDER` to the provider you would like to use, then set the environment variables for that provider (use `.env.template` as the base).

The setup for Shopify would look like this for example:

```
COMMERCE_PROVIDER=shopify
NEXT_PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_ACCESS_TOKEN=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
NEXT_PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STORE_DOMAIN=xxxxxxx.myshopify.com
```

And check that the `tsconfig.json` resolves to the chosen provider:

```
  "@framework": ["framework/shopify"],
  "@framework/*": ["framework/shopify/*"]
```

That's it!

### Features

Every provider defines the features that it supports under `framework/{provider}/commerce.config.json`

#### Features Available

The following features can be enabled or disabled. This means that the UI will remove all code related to the feature.
For example: Turning `cart` off will disable Cart capabilities.

- cart
- search
- wishlist
- customerAuth
- customCheckout

#### How to turn Features on and off

> NOTE: The selected provider should support the feature that you are toggling. (This means that you can't turn wishlist on if the provider doesn't support this functionality out the box)

- Open `commerce.config.json`
- You'll see a config file like this:
  ```json
  {
    "features": {
      "wishlist": false,
      "customCheckout": true
    }
  }
  ```
- Turn `wishlist` on by setting `wishlist` to `true`.
- Run the app and the wishlist functionality should be back on.

### How to create a new provider

Follow our docs for [Adding a new Commerce Provider](framework/commerce/new-provider.md).

If you succeeded building a provider, submit a PR with a valid demo and we'll review it asap.

## Contribute

Our commitment to Open Source can be found [here](https://vercel.com/oss).

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository to your own GitHub account and then [clone](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/) it to your local device.
2. Create a new branch `git checkout -b MY_BRANCH_NAME`
3. Install the dependencies: `npm i`
4. Duplicate `.env.template` and rename it to `.env.local`
5. Add proper store values to `.env.local`
6. Run `npm run dev` to build and watch for code changes

## Work in progress

We're using Github Projects to keep track of issues in progress and todo's. Here is our [Board](https://github.com/vercel/commerce/projects/1)

People actively working on this project: @okbel & @lfades.

## Troubleshoot

<details>
<summary>I already own a BigCommerce store. What should I do?</summary>
<br>
First thing you do is: <b>set your environment variables</b>
<br>
<br>
.env.local

```sh
BIGCOMMERCE_STOREFRONT_API_URL=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STORE_API_URL=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STORE_API_TOKEN=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STORE_API_CLIENT_ID=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_CHANNEL_ID=<>
```

If your project was started with a "Deploy with Vercel" button, you can use Vercel's CLI to retrieve these credentials.

1. Install Vercel CLI: `npm i -g vercel`
2. Link local instance with Vercel and Github accounts (creates .vercel file): `vercel link`
3. Download your environment variables: `vercel env pull .env.local`

Next, you're free to customize the starter. More updates coming soon. Stay tuned.

</details>

<details>
<summary>BigCommerce shows a Coming Soon page and requests a Preview Code</summary>
<br>
After Email confirmation, Checkout should be manually enabled through BigCommerce platform. Look for "Review & test your store" section through BigCommerce's dashboard.
<br>
<br>
BigCommerce team has been notified and they plan to add more details about this subject.
</details>

Commit message:

Update readme with providers hold (#602)

README.md, after:

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fcommerce&project-name=commerce&repo-name=commerce&demo-title=Next.js%20Commerce&demo-description=An%20all-in-one%20starter%20kit%20for%20high-performance%20e-commerce%20sites.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Fdemo.vercel.store&demo-image=https%3A%2F%2Fbigcommerce-demo-asset-ksvtgfvnd.vercel.app%2Fbigcommerce.png&integration-ids=oac_MuWZiE4jtmQ2ejZQaQ7ncuDT)

# Next.js Commerce

The all-in-one starter kit for high-performance e-commerce sites. With a few clicks, Next.js developers can clone, deploy and fully customize their own store.
Start right now at [nextjs.org/commerce](https://nextjs.org/commerce)

Demo live at: [demo.vercel.store](https://demo.vercel.store/)

- Shopify Demo: https://shopify.vercel.store/
- Swell Demo: https://swell.vercel.store/
- BigCommerce Demo: https://bigcommerce.vercel.store/
- Vendure Demo: https://vendure.vercel.store
- Saleor Demo: https://saleor.vercel.store/
- Ordercloud Demo: https://ordercloud.vercel.store/

## Features

- Performant by default
- SEO Ready
- Internationalization
- Responsive
- UI Components
- Theming
- Standardized Data Hooks
- Integrations - Integrate seamlessly with the most common ecommerce platforms.
- Dark Mode Support

## Integrations

Next.js Commerce integrates out-of-the-box with BigCommerce, Shopify, Swell, Saleor and Vendure. We plan to support all major ecommerce backends.

## Considerations

- `framework/commerce` contains all types, helpers and functions to be used as base to build a new **provider**.
- **Providers** live under `framework`'s root folder and they will extend Next.js Commerce types and functionality (`framework/commerce`).
- We have a **Features API** to ensure feature parity between the UI and the Provider. The UI should update accordingly and no extra code should be bundled. All extra configuration for features will live under `features` in `commerce.config.json` and if needed it can also be accessed programatically.
- Each **provider** should add its corresponding `next.config.js` and `commerce.config.json` adding specific data related to the provider. For example in case of BigCommerce, the images CDN and additional API routes.
- **Providers don't depend on anything that's specific to the application they're used in**. They only depend on `framework/commerce`, on their own framework folder and on some dependencies included in `package.json`

## Configuration

### How to change providers

Open `.env.local` and change the value of `COMMERCE_PROVIDER` to the provider you would like to use, then set the environment variables for that provider (use `.env.template` as the base).

The setup for Shopify would look like this for example:

```
COMMERCE_PROVIDER=shopify
NEXT_PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_ACCESS_TOKEN=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
NEXT_PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STORE_DOMAIN=xxxxxxx.myshopify.com
```

And check that the `tsconfig.json` resolves to the chosen provider:

```
  "@framework": ["framework/shopify"],
  "@framework/*": ["framework/shopify/*"]
```

That's it!

### Features

Every provider defines the features that it supports under `framework/{provider}/commerce.config.json`

#### Features Available

The following features can be enabled or disabled. This means that the UI will remove all code related to the feature.
For example: Turning `cart` off will disable Cart capabilities.

- cart
- search
- wishlist
- customerAuth
- customCheckout

#### How to turn Features on and off

> NOTE: The selected provider should support the feature that you are toggling. (This means that you can't turn wishlist on if the provider doesn't support this functionality out the box)

- Open `commerce.config.json`
- You'll see a config file like this:
  ```json
  {
    "features": {
      "wishlist": false,
      "customCheckout": true
    }
  }
  ```
- Turn `wishlist` on by setting `wishlist` to `true`.
- Run the app and the wishlist functionality should be back on.

### How to create a new provider

🔔 New providers are on hold [until we have a new API for commerce](https://github.com/vercel/commerce/pull/252) 🔔

Follow our docs for [Adding a new Commerce Provider](framework/commerce/new-provider.md).

If you succeeded building a provider, submit a PR with a valid demo and we'll review it asap.

## Contribute

Our commitment to Open Source can be found [here](https://vercel.com/oss).

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository to your own GitHub account and then [clone](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/) it to your local device.
2. Create a new branch `git checkout -b MY_BRANCH_NAME`
3. Install the dependencies: `npm i`
4. Duplicate `.env.template` and rename it to `.env.local`
5. Add proper store values to `.env.local`
6. Run `npm run dev` to build and watch for code changes

## Work in progress

We're using Github Projects to keep track of issues in progress and todo's. Here is our [Board](https://github.com/vercel/commerce/projects/1)

People actively working on this project: @okbel & @lfades.

## Troubleshoot

<details>
<summary>I already own a BigCommerce store. What should I do?</summary>
<br>
First thing you do is: <b>set your environment variables</b>
<br>
<br>
.env.local

```sh
BIGCOMMERCE_STOREFRONT_API_URL=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STORE_API_URL=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STORE_API_TOKEN=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_STORE_API_CLIENT_ID=<>
BIGCOMMERCE_CHANNEL_ID=<>
```

If your project was started with a "Deploy with Vercel" button, you can use Vercel's CLI to retrieve these credentials.

1. Install Vercel CLI: `npm i -g vercel`
2. Link local instance with Vercel and Github accounts (creates .vercel file): `vercel link`
3. Download your environment variables: `vercel env pull .env.local`

Next, you're free to customize the starter. More updates coming soon. Stay tuned.

</details>

<details>
<summary>BigCommerce shows a Coming Soon page and requests a Preview Code</summary>
<br>
After Email confirmation, Checkout should be manually enabled through BigCommerce platform. Look for "Review & test your store" section through BigCommerce's dashboard.
<br>
<br>
BigCommerce team has been notified and they plan to add more details about this subject.
</details>
